## Analysing-COVID-19-datasets-using-Applied-Statistics
#### Final project of Applied Data Mining - STAT

For this ﬁnal project, we will be analyzing data from two diﬀerent sources regarding the Coronavirus (COVID19) pandemic, comprised of information from many countries and regions. The onset of this strain of the coronavirus is arguably the most internationally debilitating event since the Spanish Flu in 1918. Now, in the midst of the ongoing situation, we will be analyzing data to validate commonly held notions about the disease and attempt to meaningfully model and segment its spread throughout the world using statistical techniques including logistic regression, non-linear regression, principal components analysis, and regression trees.

Data The data used in this analysis is two sets of data regarding the spread of the coronavirus. One set, obtained from Kaggle, and the data, contains information on individuals in China, regarding their age, gender, survival status, and more. These statistics from many diﬀerent countries depicts the wild and proliferous spread of the coronavirus (covid-19) that has become a worldwide pandemic aﬀecting nearly every country.

### Conclusion 
This project is timely and important in the way that the pandemic has taken over the world and we are all living in it. This study concludes the following:

##### Logistic Regression 
The eﬀect of age and gender on death was tested using a logistic regression model on the individual case data. We observe that both gender and age are signiﬁcant predictors of death due to coronavirus. Men seem 2.314 more likely to die from infection and for every one-year increase in age a person is about 1.07 times more likely.

##### Non-Linear Regression 
We did the non-linear regression to the data, and it turns out not all the states have the same trend. some of them had peaks and the curve is falling down, while others are still climbing up. We are more concerned about the states most recent performance and compared the correlation of the standardized conﬁrmed cases of recent 30 days- which is at the right of the red vertical dotted line. If the correlation is negative, it means the recent trend of conﬁrmed case is declining; if it is positive, it means there is a trend of increasing in the recent 30 days. It shows that Montana, Alaska, Vermont, Hawaii, and New York are having a trend of declining in new conﬁrmed cases, as their correlation are all smaller than -0.8. For example, among them Montana has the smallest correlation which is -0.96, and that of New York is -0.81. Those states all shows that they have passed the peak of the curve and now the new conﬁrmed cases are falling down. On the other hand, the states that have fastest increasing new conﬁrmed cases trend are: Virginia, Iowa, Mississippi, Illinois, Nebraska, Kansas, North Carolina, Maryland, Rhode Island, New Mexico and Minnesota, and they have correlation of more than 0.8. For example, the largest correlation is from Virginia which is 0.97, and we could see from the non-linear curve as well that the new conﬁrmed cases are increasing sharply recently. The increase of conﬁrmed cases might due to the increase of the test ability recently or other reasons, and the data is telling us that the situations in those states need some attention because of their recent increase of new conﬁrmed cases.

##### Principal Component Analysis on the coronavirus package 
The result seem good in separating some of the countries or areas, but we have to disregard the date variable for PCA. For the PCA of world wide by countries. It shows similar trends in conﬁrmed number of cases, deaths and recovered. The U.S. performs diﬀerently than the rest of the countries in the ﬁrst PC. Canada, France and Netherlands performs diﬀerently than the rest of the countries in the second PC.
27
For the PCA of the U.S., it shows in the conﬁrmed case numbers and deaths numbers, the ﬁrst PC explains most of the errors, and New York performs diﬀerent comparing with the rest of the states. In the recovered data, Maryland performs diﬀerent, following by New Jersy and Kansas.

##### Decision trees 
We try to predict if the recovery cases trend in terms of greater than the other, is based on number of cases in country or the region of infection. The decision tree plots shows us in countries like Egypt, Canada, US, UK, Germany among others split into 2 branches when the cases are more than or = 12. When the cases are greater than 12, and split into a subtree where it is greater than 1331 cases there is no recovery seen and in such cases the recovery is expected around 300 cases overall. Similarly in countries like India and Japan among others, for instance in UAE, recovery is reported when cases are less than 10. Confusion matrix and statistics related to the tree performance show us that the accuracy of the classiﬁcation tree plotted is about 67.7% and Cohen’s kappa value of 0.246, with a sensitivity of 73.39%. Overall the classiﬁcation tree is a good metric to predict recovery cases and the lower the number of cases in a country, better the possibility of patients recovery.
